RFC-0329 - Deprecated evented and lifecycle hooks (#384)
ember-learn/deprecation-app: content/ember-data/v2/record-lifecycle-event-methods.md

---
id: record-lifecycle-event-methods
title: Record Lifecycle Event Methods
until: '4.0.0'

> since: '3.12.0-canary.2'

Reviewer: Are you sure this should be a canary version?

---
## Deprecating Record Lifecycle Event Methods
As described in ['RFC 0329'](https://github.com/emberjs/rfcs/pull/329) -
>...the following lifecycle methods on DS.Model will also be deprecated: becameError, becameInvalid, didCreate, didDelete, didLoad, didUpdate, ready, rolledBack.
>
> When a model is instantiated for the first time with any of these methods a deprecation warning will be logged notifiying the user that this method will be deprecated and the user should use an computed or overide the model's init method instead.

> The  work of lifecycle events can be acheived with a CP on a relevant property or kick off additional work when performing the operation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The work of lifecycle events can be achieved with a computed property on a relevant property or kick off additional work when performing the operation.
```

> 

Reviewer: I think it would be nice with an actual example on how to go from the deprecated feature to using a computed property.

Author: Agreed, I'll work on that.

Reviewer: Thank you so much!

> ### Some example CP alternative:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Some Examples of CP Alternatives:
```

* **becameError** - CP on [isError](https://api.emberjs.com/ember-data/3.10/classes/DS.Model/properties/isError?anchor=isError)
* **becameInvalid** - CP on [isValid](https://api.emberjs.com/ember-data/3.10/classes/DS.Model/properties/isValid?anchor=isValid)
* **didCreate** - CP on [isNew](https://api.emberjs.com/ember-data/3.10/classes/DS.Model/properties/isNew?anchor=isNew)
* **didDelete** - CP on [isDeleted](https://api.emberjs.com/ember-data/3.10/classes/DS.Model/properties/isDeleted?anchor=isDeleted)
* **didLoad** - CP on [isLoaded](https://api.emberjs.com/ember-data/3.10/classes/DS.Model/properties/isLoaded?anchor=isLoaded)
* **didUpdate** - CP on [hasDirtyAttributes](https://api.emberjs.com/ember-data/3.10/classes/DS.Model/properties/hasDirtyAttributes?anchor=hasDirtyAttributes)

> Other work arounds can be done at the time of interacting with the model.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Other workarounds can be done at the time of interacting with the model.
```

> For example, the following could be an alternative to using the didLoad event.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, the following could be an alternative to using the `didLoad` event.
```
